[DOCS] Reformats Dashboard and adds Lens reference (#89615)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/dashboard/lens.asciidoc

*Lens* uses a sample of 5,000 documents to analyze the fields. The bottom line of the summary shows the percentage of sampled documents over all available documents.

When *Lens* displays the top 10 values distribution, the percentage of *Other* values is also shown. For array value fields, the percentage distribution considers each value in the array as separate.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_data_info.png[Data summary window with Other]

For sparse datasets, *Empty fields* can still contain data. it is possible that a field is marked as empty even if it has data within the given filters: 
Lens samples the first 500 documents for the given filters set to establish whether the field has data or it is empty.

The field is still usable in the visualization and if it contains data it will be correctly visualized.

In this case the search field box and the field filters can be useful to work with all fields in this case:

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_fields_indexpattern.png[Lens fields list can be filtered]

NOTE: The sum of the *Other* fields can equal more than 100% by a small amount.

[float]
[[lens-faq]]
==== Frequently asked questions

> For the answers to common *Lens* questions, review the following. 

Author: This is true! But our FAQ is in Asciidoc, which requires words to separate titles.

[float]
[[how-does-the-percentage-chart-calculate-percentages]]

> ===== How does Lens calculate percentages in percentage charts?

Author: Removing for 7.12. Let's address this for 7.13.

Similar to filter ratio, percentage charts are useful for comparing one or multiple parts to a whole. 
Use percentage charts when you have bucketed aggregations and time series data.

The percentages for each value are computed for each bucket with the division between the metric for 
the value, and the metric of all documents. For example, the percentage for date histogram is calculated 
for each time bucket. If the bucket has 0 documents, then the percentage chart displays 0%, not a 100% value.

When you use a bucketed metric, such as *Top values*, you can display the <<what-is-the-other-category, *Other* field>> 
in the percentage chart. When you display the *Other* field, the final result displays the correct ratio.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_area_percentage.png[Lens Area percentage]

[float]
[[can-i-show-value-labels-for-my-chart]]
===== How do I display value labels?

> A subset of *Lens* visualizations support value labels. Value labels are unsupported in date histogram.

Reviewer: I think the `unsupported in date histogram` bit should be moved to the bar chart notes. Also, it's all histograms, not just date histograms, right?

Author: Removing for 7.12. Let's address this for 7.13.

* *Bar* and *Horizontal Bar*
+
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/lens_value_labels_xychart_toggle.png[Lens Bar chart value labels menu]

Reviewer: There's no text-based explanation of how to open this menu, can you add one above?

> * *Pie*, *Donut*, and *Treemap*

Reviewer: If I remember correctly these chart types have extra options for value labels?

Author: Let's address this for 7.13.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_value_labels_partition_toggle.png[Lens Pie chart value labels menu]

[float]
[[how-are-ip-address-sorted]]

> ===== How does Lens sort IP addresses?

Reviewer: This question looks like the kind of question we would get internally, but I think the question our users have is much more basic: it's usually "why isn't my data sorted the way I want?" or "why is the sorting not working?". This is because each Lens chart type sorts differently, and we need to how the data table sorting _is not_ changing the ES results.

If you want to use IP addresses as an example of sorting, then feel free, but I think this answer needs to be expanded

@dej611

Author: Removing for 7.12. Let's address this for 7.13.

In a *Data table* that contains IP address fields, *Lens* sorts the IP addresses by IPv4 and IPv6 formats.
To easily find IP addresses within the same subset, each block of IP addresses is compared and sorted. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_ipv4_sorting.png[Lens datatable with IPv4 sorted field]

When your data contains IPv4 and IPv6 fields, IPv4 addresses are mapped into IPv6-mapped addresses, and sorted as IPv6 addresses.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_ip_mixed_sorting.png[Lens datatable with IPv4 and IPv6 sorted field]

NOTE: Values grouped as *Other* always appear last.

[float]
[[what-is-the-other-category]]
===== What data is categorized as Other?

> The *Other* category contains all of the documents that do not match the specified criteria or filters. 
> Use *Other* when you want to compare a value, or multiple values, to a whole.
> By default, *Group other values as "Other"* is enabled when you select the *Top values* function. 

Reviewer: The first sentence here is misleading and I think it needs clarification. Something like this:

```suggestion
The *Top values* function is limited to a maximum number of unique values, which might not
cover the full data. "Other" will include the lower ranked values so that the function covers all
of the data.

"Other" is enabled by default, but is not recommended on all metrics. It works well with additive
metrics like count or sum, but it may not make sense when using median or average.
```

To disable *Group other values as "Other"*:

. In the editor, click *Advanced*. 

. Deselect *Group other values as "Other"*.

[float]
[[how-can-i-include-documents-without-the-field-in-the-operation]]
===== How can I include documents without the field?

By default, *Lens* retrieves only the documents from the specified field. 
For bucket aggregations, such as *Top values*, you can choose to include documents that do not contain the specified field, 
which is helpful when you want to compare to the whole documentation set.

. In the editor, click *Advanced*.

. Select *Include documents without this field*.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/lens_bucketed_aggregation_advanced_dropdown.png[Lens Advanced options for bucketed aggregations]

[float]
[[is-it-possible-to-select-color-for-specific-bar-or-point]]
===== How do I change the color for a single data point?

> *Lens* provides you with color pallettes that you can apply to the entire visualization, but you are unable to change the color for a single data point, such as a bar or line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Lens* provides you with color palettes that you can apply to the entire visualization, but you are unable to change the color for a single data point, such as a bar or line.
```

[float]
[[can-i-sort-by-multiple-columns]]
===== How do I sort by multiple columns?

Multiple column sorting is unsupported in *Lens*, but is supported in *Discover*. For information on how to sort multiple columns in *Discover*, 
refer to <<explore-fields-in-your-data,Explore the fields in your data>>.

[float]
[[is-it-possible-to-inspect-elasticsearch-queries]]
===== How do I inspect {es} queries?

> Inspecting {es} queries in visualizations is unsupported in *Lens*. 

Reviewer 2: Need to update this with the `Inspector` flow: `Inpector` => `View: Request` => `Request ....`?

Author: We already cover how to inspect visualizations on the Dashboard page, so this isn't needed.

[float]
[[is-it-possible-to-sort-dimensions-in-a-chart]]
===== How do I sort the dimensions in a chart?

> Sorting dimensions in visualizations is unsupported in *Lens*.

Reviewer: This isn't really true with the table- left a comment about this earlier

Author: Removing for 7.12. Let's address this for 7.13.
